{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Charter-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red239\green239\blue239;
\red13\green14\blue16;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green237\blue141;\red236\green255\blue191;\red94\green176\blue32;
\red237\green255\blue190;\red255\green255\blue255;\red129\green0\blue2;\red194\green0\blue4;\red21\green21\blue21;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99971;\cssrgb\c94902\c94902\c94902;
\cssrgb\c5490\c6667\c7451;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c93725\c61961;\cssrgb\c94001\c100000\c79269;\cssrgb\c43067\c72927\c16222;
\cssrgb\c94018\c100000\c79150;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c58580\c2312\c0;\cssrgb\c81490\c4389\c0;\cssrgb\c10588\c10588\c10588;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/539wyi/eli5_what_is_a_thought_what_happens_in_our_brains/\cf4 \cb5 \
To begin with, we want to know what makes thoughts unlike other mental states. The answer is that thoughts are mental states that we have that have propositional content: that represent the world as being a certain way. When you think "it's nice out this morning," you're representing the world as being in a certain state, namely the one in which the weather is enjoyable. Other types of mental states are not propositional in this way, however, because they don't represent the world as being a certain way. For example, emotions feel a certain way, but they don't represent the world as being a certain way. One way to think about this is in terms of truth and falsity: while thoughts can be true or false, emotions can't. It doesn't make sense to say that your anger is true or false in the same way it does to say that your thoughts are true or false, because anger doesn't have propositional content: it doesn't represent the world as being a particular way.\
So, thoughts are mental states with propositional content, which represent the world as being a particular way. But how do we have them? The answer has to do with meaning: thoughts have propositional content because they mean something. The words (or, for some, images) that make up your thoughts have meanings, and these meanings combine to make up the propositional content of the thought. In your thought "it's nice out this morning", each individual word contributes its meaning to the proposition that is the content of the thought, which is that it's nice out this morning. So the trick to figuring out how there are thoughts in our brain is to figure out how states of our brain can be meaningful.\
The current theory about how our brain states can be meaningful stipulates that there's a language of thought: that just like our speech is composed of linguistic elements like words that have meaning, so too do our neurons combine in our brain to form language-like patterns of activation that are meaningful in the same way that language is. So certain local patterns of neural activation actually mean the same thing as the English words "morning", "nice," and so on, and different relations between those local patterns of neural activity serve the same logical function as English grammar, which allows individually meaningful words to combine to form a meaningful proposition that represents a particular state of the world. As a result, you have the English thought "it's nice out this morning" because your brain is thinking in its own, totally different language, which happens to mean the same thing as "it's nice out this morning."\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Now, how do those thoughts become conscious? This is an area of active research, but most philosophers and cognitive scientists are coalescing around what's called the 'global workspace model' of consciousness. On this view, thoughts are conscious when they're in a special kind of relationship with other states of the brain that allow them to cause and be caused by all kinds of other brain states. Most of our brain activity has only local causal relations: for example, the brain states that control our balance can only be caused by certain sensory neurons, and can only cause a limited range of motor responses. As a result, they're almost always unconscious. But thoughts become conscious when they can can cause and be caused by almost anything: by sensations, emotions, desires, other thoughts, and so on. In particular, one thing conscious thoughts can cause are conscious auditory imaginations - namely those of the English language words that we use to express the thought. Why conscious thoughts tend to do this is unclear, but it probably has to do with facilitating quick translation of thought to speech. Since your thoughts are in the neuronal language of thought, but you need to communicate in natural languages like English, it's helpful for the brain to have a way of quickly translating your conscious thoughts and relaying them to the parts of your brain that control speech.\
\
\cf2 \cb6 pattern recognizers\cf4 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 Signals go up and down the conceptual hierarchy. 
\f2\b \cb7 A signal going up means, \'93I\'92ve detected a pattern.\'94 A signal going down means, \'93I\'92m expecting your pattern to occur,\'94 and is essentially a prediction
\f1\b0 \cb1 . Both upward and downward signals can be 
\f2\b either excitatory or inhibitory.
\f1\b0 \
A key requirement, I believe, is to 
\f2\b \cb7 allow for the system to flexibly create its own topologies based on the patterns it is exposed to while learning
\f1\b0 \cb1 . We can use the mathematical technique of linear programming to optimally assign connections to new pattern recognizers. Our digital brain will also accommodate substantial redundancy of each pattern, especially ones that occur frequently\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs72 \cf2 \cb6 these old v _______ v
\fs28 \
\

\fs48 short term memory
\fs28 \
contains recent\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}state of world\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}fetched \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
long term\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  memories\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf2 \cb6 systems
\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \
\cf2 \cb6 \

\fs48 long term memory system
\fs28 \
can be used for predictions\
\

\fs48 quick response system
\fs28 \
it is a neural network\
can quickly recognize things like (12*23 is multiplication)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
adjusts depending on what logic system figures out. adjusts to do less or more of something when certain conditions happen. example:\

\f3 before:\
\cb8 | a   |\
|  \cf9 \cb10 \\\cf2 \cb8   |\
|   d |\
|  \cf9 \cb10 /\cf2 \cb8   |\
| b   |\
\cb11 cause effect system says: do not do d if c\
after:\cb6 \
\cb8 | a   |\
|  \cf9 \cb10 \\\cf2 \cb8   |\
|   d |\
|  \cf9 \cb10 /\cf12 |\cf2 \cb8  |\
| b \cf12 \cb10 |\cf2 \cb8  |\
|   \cf13 \cb10 |\cf2 \cb8  |\
|  \cf12 \cb10 /\cf2 \cb8   |\
| c   |
\f0 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \

\fs48 cause effect system\

\fs28 \
uses state of world and semantic memory to figure out things like\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a and b and c causes d\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}prevent b or a or c (when d is bad)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}do more c or a or b (when d is good)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}* means multiplication\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
tells quick response system the result\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf2 outcome finding system\

\fs28 finds possible outcomes\

\fs72 ________________________
\fs28 \
\
\

\fs48 htm with goal
\fs28 \
new state: goal predictive state\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}spreads using existing connections between cells\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
new purpose for columns\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}they can be for input (like before)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}they can be for action\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}action columns get input when the action is detected (
\f4\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf14 \cb15 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec14 proprioceptive
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 )\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}action columns output a action if they are in predictive state (from input columns) and goal predictive state\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}